well I had either internet people let's
bow again so tonight we're going to talk
about what an old atlas can teach us
about colonisation and Victor's two
videos back I mentioned Ethiopia as an
Italian colony I included that as a
jumping-off point not anticipating so
many African colonial history phd's
being in the comment section good on you
guys you're right it was never really a
colony not really was never a
functioning colony was an occupied
territory there were some colonies
around it but it all got lumped together
as Italian East Africa but Ethiopia what
was just occupied attacked in 1935 1936
something like that and the Italians
only held it for a few years and that
entire time there was conflict but see
the victor will never be asked if he
told the truth got a coal yours atlas
copyright 1940 I'm not sure if you can
actually see this but there is a tech
nice Africa right there and it's Mac
which marked it is Martin
seems like an odd thing for Allison
though maybe you asked to do I mean why
would we give the fascists that win why
will we give the Italians that win we
weren't technically or yet but we'd
already picked our side it's interesting
now I'm sure somebody out there is
thinking well they're just marking who's
ruling it who's governing it at the time
no that's not what you're doing because
here's Europe
19:40 I'm gonna see Poland on there the
borders never changed doesn't show any
of the German advances why do you think
that is there's two sets of propaganda
that run around us at all times and we
look at that quote the victor will never
be asked if he's told the truth we look
at that as a singular event if you win
this event you're not going to be asked
if you're telling the truth the thing is
there are always winners and losers
there are always victors and those
victors are always producing stuff like
this book that propaganda is immense
and it's around us all the time there's
two kinds you have the nationalist kind
that you see all the time you see it
everywhere
USA USA we're number one love it or
leave it
America is number one and everything
it's why you had comments about
uneducated Africans talking about
Tunisia where the literacy rate the
functional literacy rate is higher than
the US and the dropout rate is lower the
other kind is this overriding narrative
of Western supremacy this atlas shows it
perfectly because there it is
will recognize our opposition's claim to
those others but not in Europe not in
Europe
we can fight amongst ourselves and well
we'll figure it out later but down there
and the global south it's all up for
grabs that image of the uneducated
Africa mud huts and all that it's very
important for the powers that be the
victors of today it's very important for
that image to remain it's extremely
important because it allows us to see
our actions over there as saving them
from themselves civilizing them homework
assignment at Google Images and pull up
the capital of an African nation look at
those skyscrapers doesn't look a whole
lot like mud huts does it they don't
need us but this image this idea of this
uncivilized barbaric land it has to
remain because colonization never ended
it never stopped it just changed a
little bit what was colonization it's
about wealth extraction that's what it
was about period full stop it's about
getting the money nothing's changed we
swamped our flags for corporate logos
and ongoing long-term military
occupations for air strikes and puppet
governments that's all that happened
there was no real change in philosophy
just in tactics it's still about wealth
extraction in 2007 DoD created AFRICOM
ok that's Africa commanded the
Department of Defense now has a specific
command to deal with Africa
what's its mission
Africa command with partners disrupts
and neutralizes transnational threats
okay protects US personnel and
facilities all right
prevents and mitigates conflicts I don't
know that DoD should be involved in that
that's not something they're very good
at and builds African partner defense
capability and capacity in order to
promote regional security stability and
prosperity there it is it's always about
money it's always about money and DOD
the u.s. in general is clinging to this
idea
they're holding to it as business with a
death grip that it has to be done
militarily we still want to be the
world's policeman rather than the
world's EMT the thing is the people of
Africa they don't want our troops they
don't they want our business and not of
an exploitive nature that's what they
want they want to be able to build their
countries and not be under the thumb of
a Western power so much so that their
colonization is recognized when it never
really happened it's important that we
recognize this propaganda and that it's
all around us all the time and that it
end points is the way we think if we
don't hear in the next ten years in the
US the UK
oh we're we're gonna start losing a lot
of troops in Africa because as these
countries grow and develop and they have
they're gonna want their piece of their
own pie and they're gonna fight for it
that's why Africa Command was created
the whole job of that that command is to
keep Africa under the USS thumb that's
what it's there for
they're not going to stay there
willingly not for long it's why it's
really important that we have to ask the
victors for the truth the victors of
today the powers that be today we have
to get the truth we can't rely on them
or their atlases or their textbooks to
give us an objective picture of the
world my most prized possessions are old
history books from different countries
because it shows you yea the nationalist
story is different in each one but the
one thing that remains is Western
supremacy it's in all of them it is in
all of them and yeah you could switch
out that w word in Western supremacy for
another W word it's pretty much the same
thing it doesn't really change much
we've got to start seeing through it or
our reluctance to look at the facts and
how things are really played out is
gonna cost a lot of lives anyway it's
just a fault y'all have a good night